Add Moloco MCM destination beta doc (#6399)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/destinations/catalog/moloco-rmp/index.md

1. From the Segment web console, click **Catalog**.
2. On the Catalog page, search for “Moloco”, select it, and click **Add destination**.
3. Choose which of your sources to connect the destination to.
4. In the Moloco MCM destination settings page, fill the Platform ID and API key fields with your Moloco Platform ID and Event Service API key. 
5. Select “APP" if your source endpoint is a mobile app, and "SITE" if it is a website.

## Identify

Moloco strongly recommends that you identify your logged-in users using Segment's [Identify method](/docs/connections/spec/identify/) and that you hash the user ID before sending it to Moloco.

Please find an example Identify call below:

```js
analytics.identify('361b1fdfbeaa9d64a13c033eb9f970dc6740f6bc', {
  email: 'john.doe@example.com'
});
```

Once a user is identified, each call to Segment's [Track method](/docs/connections/spec/track/) automatically records the user ID.
Users that are not logged in can be tracked using an [anonymousID](/docs/connections/spec/identify/#anonymous-id). Moloco Commerce Media does not use anonymousIDs for users that are not logged in. Segment recommends formatting your anonymousID in UUID format.

> > info" "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info " "
```

    ...
```

and user chose the following mapping:

```js
    // "event" represents the name of the event
    event: properties.event
    // "vertical" represents which vertical the event happened on
    vertical: properties.vertical

    // The combination of those two tokens can repsent
    // "Which action happened on which vertical"
```

The tokens are stringified into the following:

```js
    "event:Product List Viewed;vertical:fruit"
```

The tokens are stringified in the format of the above example because they are key-value pairs concatenated by a semicolon (;). 

> info " "
> if you decide to use the Page Identifier Token in your mobile app, reuse the same Page Identifier Token in place of page_id when calling Moloco’s APIs.

## Mappings

In the Mappings tab, some fields are chosen by default if some common fields map to Moloco Event’s fields. If the mapped key does not exist in the input data, it won’t trigger an error. Instead, the mapping will not pass any value.

If you are using **the default fields in a custom way**, please confirm that your mapping meets Moloco's requirements.

Default Mappings are not hard rules. They can be modified to your convenience.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{% include components/actions-fields.html %}
```

---
title: Moloco Commerce Media Destination

> beta: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: 65f05e455b125cddd886b793
beta: true
private: true
```

---

> [Moloco Commerce Media](https://www.moloco.com/products/moloco-retail-media-platform) (MCM) is a technology solution that empowers marketplaces and online retailers to build and scale a retail media business (i.e., sponsored ads). Moloco’s solution helps platforms leverage and activate their first-party data to deliver highly relevant and performant ads, automate ad decision-making, and scale their ads business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Moloco Commerce Media](https://www.moloco.com/products/moloco-retail-media-platform){:target="_blank”} (MCM) is a technology solution that empowers marketplaces and online retailers to build and scale a retail media business (for example, sponsored ads). Moloco’s solution helps platforms leverage and activate their first-party data to deliver highly relevant and performant ads, automate ad decision-making, and scale their ads business.
```

> This Moloco Commerce Media destination can send user events collected using the Segment SDK to Moloco’s platform for simplified performance ads integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Moloco Commerce Media destination can send user events collected using the Segment SDK to Moloco’s platform for a simplified performance ads integration.
```

This allows you to run performance advertising without having to build your own backend system to ingest and send user events data in realtime to Moloco. 

> ## Getting Started
> 
> Before you configure the Moloco Commerce Media destination, make sure that your source data is configured correctly and that you are able to see events flowing in the event stream debugger.
> 
> To configure the Moloco Commerce Media destination, you need to get the following 2 elements from your Moloco representative.
> 
> 1. Moloco Platform ID
> 2. Moloco Event Service API key
> 
> Once you obtain those 2 pieces of information, you can move on to the Segment console.
> 
> 1. From the Segment web console, click Catalog.
> 2. On the Catalog page, from the destination tab, Search for “Moloco”, select it, and click on Add destination.
> 3. Choose which of your sources to connect the destination to.
> 4. In the Moloco MCM destination settings page, fill the Platform ID and API key fields with the previously collected information and select “APP or SITE” depending on your source endpoint (mobile or website).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started

### Prerequisites 
Before you configure the Moloco Commerce Media destination, add a source to Segment and use the [Source Debugger](/docs/connections/sources/debugger/) to verify Segment is receiving events. 

Before you configure the Moloco Commerce Media destination, reach out to your Moloco representative about the following account information: 
- Moloco Platform ID
- Moloco Event Service API key

After you obtain that account information, you can move on to the Segment app.

### Set up your Moloco destination
1. From the Segment web console, click **Catalog**.
2. On the Catalog page, search for “Moloco”, select it, and click **Add destination**.
3. Choose which of your sources to connect the destination to.
4. In the Moloco MCM destination settings page, fill the Platform ID and API key fields with your Moloco Platform ID and Event Service API key. 
5. Select “APP" if your source endpoint is a mobile app, and "SITE" if it is a website.
```

## Identify

> We strongly recommend that you identify your logged-in users using the [Identify method provided by Segment](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/identify/). We also recommended hashing the user ID before sending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moloco strongly recommends that you identify your logged-in users using Segment's [Identify method](/docs/connections/spec/identify/) and that you hash the user ID before sending it to Moloco.
```

> Please find below an example call to identify:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please find an example Identify call below:
```

```js
analytics.identify('361b1fdfbeaa9d64a13c033eb9f970dc6740f6bc', {
  email: 'john.doe@example.com'
});
```

> Once a user is identified, each call to the [Track method](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/track/) will automatically record the user ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a user is identified, each call to Segment's [Track method](/docs/connections/spec/track/) automatically records the user ID.
```

> For non logged-in users, you can still track them using an [anonymous ID](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/identify/#anonymous-id) (something like UUID as recommended by Segment) but on the Moloco Commerce Media side, we do not use that field for non logged-in users.

Reviewer: Hi @samir-moloco - if MCM doesn't use an anonymousID, what would that look like for the user data that contains an anonymousID? Is it not accepted by MCM, but could be accepted by other destinations?

```suggestion
Users that are not logged in can be tracked using an [anonymousID](/docs/connections/spec/identify/#anonymous-id). Moloco Commerce Media does not use anonymousIDs for users that are not logged in. Segment recommends formatting your anonymousID in UUID format.
```

> _Note_: if you decided to hash the user ID before sending it to Moloco for event tracking, please make sure you reuse the same hashed ID when calling other Moloco’s APIs like Decision API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info" "
> If you hash the user ID before sending it to Moloco, ensure you reuse the same hashed ID when calling other Moloco APIs.
```

> ## Moloco Commerce Media’s available presets

Reviewer: Hi @samir-moloco - this content will be automatically generated from the information you provided to the actions-destination folks when your destination enters public beta, so there's no need to include this here! Here's an example of what it will look like ([Braze Cloud Mode (Actions) - Available Presets](https://segment.com/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/#available-presets))

> ## Moloco Commerce Media’s available presets
> 
> MCM currently supports the following [user event data specifications](https://mcm-docs.moloco.com/docs/51-user-event-data-specifications).
> 
> <table>
>   <tr>
>     <td>**Event type**</td>
>     <td>**Trigger**</td>
>     <td>**Description**</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>HOME</td>
>     <td>Event type = "page" AND event = "Home"</td>
>     <td>HOME event type is when a shopper views your website's main or home page.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>LAND</td>
>     <td>Event type = "page" AND event = "Land"</td>
>     <td>LAND event type is when a shopper is visiting your website from an external source (ex. Google Shopping)</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>ITEM_PAGE_VIEW</td>
>     <td>Event type = "track" AND event = "Product Viewed"</td>
>     <td>ITEM_PAGE_VIEW event type is when a shopper visits a product detail page.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>ADD_TO_CART</td>
>     <td>Event type = "track" AND event = "Product Added"</td>
>     <td>ADD_TO_CART event type is when a shopper adds an item to the cart.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>ADD_TO_WISHLIST</td>
>     <td>Event type = "track" AND event = "Product Added to Wishlist"</td>
>     <td>ADD_TO_WISHLIST event type is when a shopper puts an item into the wish list.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>SEARCH</td>
>     <td>Event type = "track" AND event = "Product Searched"</td>
>     <td>SEARCH event type is when a shopper searches items with keywords or phrases from your site.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>PAGE_VIEW</td>
>     <td>Event type = "page" AND event != "Home"</td>
>     <td>PAGE_VIEW event type is when a shopper visits a page other than the product detail pages or the homepage of your site.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>PURCHASE</td>
>     <td>Event type = "track" AND event = "Order Completed"</td>
>     <td>PURCHASE event type is when a shopper purchases a product.</td>
>   </tr>
> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Track

> If you’re not familiar with the Segment Specs, take a look to understand what the [Track method](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/track/) does. The mappings in the Moloco Commerce Media destination are pre-built based on the [Segment’s Ecommerce Events](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/ecommerce/v2/). 
> 
> Please find below an example call to track a product detail page (PDP) view event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not familiar with the Segment Spec, take a look to understand what the [Track method](/docs/connections/spec/track/) does. The mappings in the Moloco Commerce Media destination are built based on the Segment [Ecommerce Spec](/docs/connections/spec/ecommerce/v2/). 

Please find below an example call to track a product detail page (PDP) view event:
```

```js
analytics.track("Product Viewed", {
  product_id: "1193",
  name: "Newage Uplift Eye Care Cream",
  price: 19.99
  currency: "USD"
  quantity: 1,

>   image_url: "https://www.example.com/iamge.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  image_url: "https://www.example.com/image.png"
```

});
```

## Page

> If you’re not familiar with the Segment Specs, take a look to understand what the [Page method](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/page/) does. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not familiar with the Segment Spec, take a look to understand what the [Page method](/docs/connections/spec/page/) does. 
```

> 
> Please find below an example call to page:
> 
> ```js
> analytics.page();
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you are using the Segment’s Web SDK, this call will automatically collect the page information. Here’s an example of page info automatically collected using the Segment’s Web SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Segment’s Web SDK, this call automatically collects the page information. Here’s an example of page information automatically collected using Segment’s Web SDK.
```

```js
    "page": {
      "path": "/account",
      "referrer": "",
      "search": "",
      "title": "Your Account",
      "url": "https://www.example.com/account"
    },
```

> However for iOS and Android, it won’t collect page information.

Reviewer: Is this sentence referring to mobile browsers, or for mobile app screen views?

```suggestion
Mobile app users should use the [Screen](/docs/connections/spec/screen/) call to collect information about mobile screen views, which are the equivalent of browser "page" views.
```

> In Moloco Commercial Media, the [page_id](https://mcm-docs.moloco.com/docs/51-user-event-data-specifications#page_view-event-type) attribute is required for the PAGE_VIEW event. Using the Web SDK, the page_id can be associated with the path attribute. However for iOS/Android, as we do not have an appropriate field for page_id, we recommend using the **Page Identifier Token** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moloco Commercial Media requires the [page_id](https://mcm-docs.moloco.com/docs/51-user-event-data-specifications#page_view-event-type){:target="_blank”} attribute for a PAGE_VIEW event. Using the Web SDK, the page_id can be associated with the path attribute. However for iOS/Android, Moloco Commercial Media recommends using the Page Identifier Token field.
```

> This field accepts key:value pairs of strings that can identify the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Page Identifier Token field accepts key:value pairs of strings that can identify the page.
```

Stringification Logic is: {key}:{value}s concatenated by ";"

> As page_id has a higher priority, **Page Identifier Token** will be ignored if page_id is passed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moloco Commercial Media ignores the Page Identifier Token if page_id is passed, as page_id has a higher priority.
```

> Here’s an example of **Page Identifier Token** that could be tracked in a mobile app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of a Page Identifier Token that could be tracked in a mobile app.
```

Say the input had the following schema:

```js
    ...
      "event": "Product List Viewed",
      "vertical": "fruit"
    ...
```

and user chose the following mapping:

```js
    // "event" represents the name of the event
    event: properties.event
    // "vertical" represents which vertical the event happened on
    vertical: properties.vertical

    // The combination of those two tokens can repsent
    // "Which action happened on which vertical"
```

> The tokens be stringified into:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tokens are stringified into the following:
```

```js
    "event:Product List Viewed;vertical:fruit"
```

> Logic: 
> 
> ```js
>     {key}:{value} concatenated by ";"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tokens are stringified in the format of the above example because they are key-value pairs concatenated by a semicolon (;). 
```

> _Note_: if you decided to use the **Page Identifier Token** in your mobile app, please make sure you reuse the same **Page Identifier Token** in place of page_id when calling other Moloco’s APIs like Decision API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info " "
> if you decide to use the Page Identifier Token in your mobile app, reuse the same Page Identifier Token in place of page_id when calling Moloco’s APIs.
```

## Mappings

> In the mappings tab, some fields are chosen by default if some common fields map to Moloco Event’s fields. If the mapped key does not exist in the input data, it won’t trigger an error and will just not pass any value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Mappings tab, some fields are chosen by default if some common fields map to Moloco Event’s fields. If the mapped key does not exist in the input data, it won’t trigger an error. Instead, the mapping will not pass any value.
```

> If you are using **the default fields in a custom way**, please confirm that your mapping meets Moloco's requirements.

Reviewer: I might need more context on this: what would using the default fields in a custom way look like? Where could a user read more about Moloco's requirements?

Default Mappings are not hard rules. They can be modified to your convenience.

## Monitoring

> Once the mappings are configured correctly, you can verify the flow of events from your source to Moloco’s destination in the “**Delivery Overview**” tab. If things are configured correctly, it should show a growing **Successful delivery** count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the mappings are configured correctly, you can verify the flow of events from your source to Moloco’s destination in the [Delivery Overview](/docs/connections/delivery-overview/) tab of your Moloco destination. If you correctly configured your destination, you should see a growing **Successful delivery** count.
```

> For more details about the monitoring tool, take a look at the [Delivery Overview](https://segment.com/docs/connections/delivery-overview/) docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
